hey guys thanks for tuning in to another
video on Forgotten weapons calm I mean
McCallum I just have a little extra
video for you today because I saw this
thing on gun broker this morning and
it's kind of wacky so quick reminder
today's video is brought to you by
Thorneycroft to saat jonathan ferguson
fantastic book on the history of british
bullpup rifles that is currently being
sold on kickstarter check out the link
in the description text below to see all
that cool stuff we have available for
that now as for this alleged metier this
kind of reflects back on something I get
asked fairly frequently which is how
common are faked guns like how how
cognizant how wary does a person have to
be to not get taken in and the answer is
kind of depends on your price point what
you're looking for on very high-end guns
we're talking ten thousand dollars and
more then you really need some
specialist knowledge but for the lower
end guns things that are more common
often it doesn't take that much
knowledge and a little bit of critical
thinking critical assessment to spot
things that are fake and this is one of
the fakest fakes that I've seen in quite
a long time so this is listed on the
site as Frenchy ITA m16 labelled carbine
with bayonet which is a little bit of a
tip-off to begin with because there is
no such thing as an m16 labelled carbine
or a bear ta labelled carbine there's
two different things
anyway the initial the first picture you
can actually see that there is a
clearing rod in the gun and that jumped
out at me and that's really the biggest
thing that got me to take a closer look
at this because original actual clearing
rods in Bethea is like this guy are
fairly rare to find so I go in and I
take a closer look and I realize
something's not quite right about this
and the second picture becomes very
clear that something is definitely not
right because the stock isn't the right
contour there bits of the magazine well
sticking out the hole for the action
screw looks very strange and when we get
to the third picture now it's really
funky because everything about the front
end of this rifle is wrong so what
appears
actually happened as someone had about a
m16 barreled action without a stock
without furniture without a barrel band
or nose cap and they took Mauser parts
and sty Ram 95 straight cold parts and
made them fit and they in it you know
way they kind of did a nice job of it in
that it actually fits that's not trivial
Inlet re in letting a car 98 or some
sort of malice or I don't know exactly
what style of Mauser it was but re in
letting some sort of Mauser stock to fit
is not trivial but anyway if we look at
this third picture here
first off I'm I wonder if the front
chunk of the stock is actually a
separate piece from the back chunk the
coloring looks different but what we can
definitely see is that the handguard
came off of an Argentine 1891 Mauser or
something very similar to it that is not
a Betty a handguard at all if we go to
the next picture there's something wrong
about the stacking rod it's the same
style as a bear ta but it's got a
bayonet lug on the bottom of it and the
bear t a bayonets used a plug in the
middle I don't know if you guys can
really quite see this but they use a
plug right in the middle of there you go
in the middle of the front of the nose
cap they don't have the typical sort of
bayonet lug hanging off the bottom and
this one does so this picture
first off shows the handguard very
clearly that's not about t a handguard
at all and then you can see that the
style of the nose cap is different and
that is in fact it appears to me to be a
nose cap from an M 95 straight ball an
Austrian m95 sty Ram 95 rifle which is
like Isis kind of clever if you're gonna
pick something to put on a bear ta that
looks more or less like what the RTA
originally had and then what's really
interesting to me is the listing says
this comes with the original bayonet
which is not numbered to the gun well
the reality of the fact is it comes with
an M 95 bayonet and if if we look at the
picture he actually included an up close
picture of the
the bayonet where it slots over the
barrel and someone has actually inserted
a brass or a copper ring to bring the
diameter of the bayonet attachment down
to the diameter of a OTA barrel instead
of an m95 barrel so it looks like
someone actually fitted this banette to
fit on this rifle which is kind of
remarkable now if we take a closer look
that last picture here shows the front
end of the gun on the Baer ta the rod is
sitting on the side and on this one what
they did is they took out well there
either they took out or there was no
bayonet plug and they use that hole and
they must have drilled it down or rather
actually if that's the if that's the
Mauser stock there was probably already
a hole there but in a rate they put the
a cleaning rod where this bayonet lug
originally was and I don't know offhand
what that cleaning rod is from it's not
a not a bear tee a cleaning rod the
listing says that the front sight has
been filed down in fact the front sight
is completely missing and has been
removed there's like everything about
this rifle is wrong in fact if we look
at there's a picture that shows the side
of the stock really well and you can see
a couple things here first off that it
doesn't fully cover the bottom of the
magazine the Bertier has this sort of
pregnant looking sort of stock that goes
down there to cover the magazine and
this does not because it's actually a
Mauser stock which would normally cut
across a little more straight and it's
got two gigantic cracks running down the
side of the stock and that's because the
bed t8 carbines have a substantial
amount of recoil and so they have a pair
of recoil lugs to help absorb that
recoil and prevent the stock from
splitting this Mauser has none and so
someone rebuilt this thing with that
Mauser stock and then went and shot it
and presumably then the stock basically
shattered into a couple of pieces
because it's a hefty recoil a little
carbine that doesn't have doesn't have
the proper supports in the stock so I
found this pretty fascinating I
occasionally run into things like
bertier's where one or two parts will
been replaced usually it's a bear
banned or something someone didn't have
one and so they kind of just clutched
something to fit this is the first time
I've seen one where like fully half of
the guns components really have been
retrofitted on and I don't know if the
seller doesn't recognize that or doesn't
care but it was an interesting listening
to look at and I figured I'd bring it to
you guys so hopefully you can join that
little diversion this is some of the
interesting stuff you occasionally find
on classifieds sections and advertising
boards I'm sort of thing anyway it's
also a good reason to have reference
books of course if you have a copy of
Shaw spo2 FAMAS you would immediately I
hope recognize the problems with this
rifle and if you're looking to get more
more cool fantastic reference books
particularly from headstamp publishing
check out our currently running
Kickstarter for Thorneycroft saat
british bullpup firearms 1901 to 2020
thanks for watching